RUSHI INFOTECH SELECTED INTERVIEW QUESTIONS


1.Diff b/w git and svn
2.what is conflict error
3.git pull, fetch and git merge
4.what is git stash

5.List out maven goals
6.how to set java and maven environmental variables
7.Have u created Pom.xml?

8. where do you deploy warfile in tomcat
9.what is 401 error
10.How to you resolve 403 error

11.what is Ci cd
12how does your cicd pipeline looks like
13.types of build trigger
14.Have u implemeted master and slave concept in your projects.
15 how to you take jenkins job backups
16.what type of plugins have u used i n your projects

17.what is diff b/w virtulization and containerization
18.what is docker swarm
19.what is image
20.How container is created
21.where do you store docker images
22.have u written docker compose file
23.what are the adifferent arguments used in dockerfile

24.what is ansible
25.Diff b/w chef and ansible
26.what is inventory file in ansible
27.ansible architecure
28.How ansible works
29.steps to configure passwordless authentication
30.what are the different adhoc commands used
31.what kind of playbooks have u written
32.what is ansible roles


33.which monitoring tool u have used and how did u configured that
34.which programming knowledge do u know
35.what kind of shell script have u written
36.learn some shell script basics

37.what kind of databases do u have knowledge
38.have to taken backups ?

39.Recent techonologies u have learnt and implemented in your projects



1. What is Kubernetes

Kubernetes is one of the Leading open source Container Orchestration Engine. It is used to automatic cluster deployment, scaling and manage containerized applications.

2. What is difference between Docker Swarm and Kubernetes

Docker Swarm	Kubernetes
It is Clustering for Docker Container	              It is Container Orchestration
Setup is Easy	                                        Setup is Hard
Application deployment using Pods, Deployments and Service	Application deployment using only Service
Auto scaling is Not Possible	                    Auto scaling is possible
                                       It has no GUI Dashboard	It has GUI Dashboard
It supports logging and monitoring using ELK Stack,Grafana,Influx,etc.	It does not support


3. What is Kubeadm

Kubeadm helps for installing and configuring Kubernetes cluster using command line.

4. What are Kubeadm commands ?

Command Name	Purpose
kubeadm init	Used on Master node and It is used to initialize and configure any node as a master node.
kubeadm join	Used on worker node and It is used to initialize and configure any node as worker node.
kubeadm token	It is used to genrate token.
kubeadm version	It used to check kubeadm version.
5. What are Kubernetes Cluster components on Master node

API Server, Scheduler, Controller Manager, ETCD

6. What are Kubernetes Cluster components on Worker node

Kubelet, Kubeproxy, Pods, Container

7. What is API Server

It is used to exposing various API’s. It is used to create,delete and update any object inside the cluster using kubectl command. API objects can be pods,containers,deployments,services..etc.

8. What is Scheduler ?

Scheduler is responsible for physically scheduling pods across multiple nodes, depending upon when we submit requirement to API server, scheduler schedules pod accordingly.

9. What is Controller Manager?

It is responsible overall health of entire cluster such as no of nodes insides the  cluster, up and running status as per specification.

10. What is ETCD

etcd is light weight key-value database, it stores information like about current state of cluster,..etc.

11. What is Worker node in Kubernetes?

Worker node can be any Physical Server or Virtual Machine where containers are deployed , containers can be docker,rocket,.etc.

12. What is Kubelet ?

Kubelet is primary agent which runs on each worker node.It ensures containers are running in pod.

13. What is Kubeproxy?

It is core Networking component of Kubernetes cluster, it is responsible for entire network configuration, it maintains distributed network across all containers, pods and nodes.

14. What is Pod?

Pod is scheduling unit in Kubernetes, it consists of one or more container. With the help of pod we can deploy one or more container.

15. What are the different types of services in Kubernetes ?


 
Below are different types of services in Kubernetes


 
Cluster IP –   It is used to expose the service on internal IP within cluster.

Node Port – It is used to expose the service from outside.

Load Balancer – It creates external load balancer and assigns external IP to service.

External Name Creating – It is used expose the service using name.

16. What is the difference between deployment and service in Kubernetes ?

Deployment is an object in Kubernetes, using Deployment we can create and manage pods using replica set from template.

Deployment manages creating Pods using of Replica Sets

Service is responsible to allow network access to a set of pods.

17. What is the difference between pod and deployment in Kubernetes?

Pod is scheduling unit in Kubernetes, it consists of one or more container. With the help of pod we can deploy one or more container.


 
Deployment is an object in Kubernetes, using Deployment we can create and manage pods using replica set from template.

Both are objects in the Kubernetes API

18. What is the difference between config map and secrets in Kubernetes?

Config maps stores application configuration in a plain text format.

Secrets store sensitive data like password in an encrypted format

19. What is namespace in Kubernetes?

Using namespace, we can logically organize objects in the cluster like pod and deployments. When you create Kubernetes cluster , default, kube-system and kube-public namespace are available.

20. What is ingress in Kubernetes?

Ingress is a collection of routing rules for external services running in a Kubernetes cluster.



aws:
61.what is aws
62.which services have u used in aws
63.can do you resize instance type
64.can u decresae volume size
65.what is snapshot
66.what is diff b.w volumes and s3
67.what is load balancers
68.different types of load balancers
69.what is autoscaling
70.why we have to implement autoscaling
71.what is iam
72.wht is ami
73.what is elastic IP
74.what is VPC
75.Different versions of tools
 and 
apart from this do self Learning and All THE Best Guys

